Cover Page
Queensland University of Technology

IFB240 - Cyber Security



Assessment 2: Risk Report

25/03/2025 Semester 1

Student Name	Student Number
Alexander Scott	n9737812
Julian Mark Chitty	n12076996
Laura Mullins	n11596503
Nicholas Newbury	n11274697
Tutor	Class	Group
Daisy Li & Joshua Copeland	TUE 6:00PM - 7:30PM	24
About A2: Risk Report Instructions

Table of Contents
Cover Page 1

Table of Contents 4

PART A 6

Introduction 6

Discussion 7

Context Establishment 7

Asset Details & Configuration 7

CIA Analysis 9

Applications & Use-case 10

Risk Identification and Analysis 11

Article #1 – User Behaviour 11

Article #2 – Software 12

Article #3 – Physical Threats 13

Privacy Impact Analysis 14

Policy Analysis 14

User Identity 14

Direct and Indirect Data 14

Device Data 15

Privacy Risk Identification 16

Business Relationship Exposure Risk 16

Customer Data Privacy Compliance Risk 17

Intellectual Property Exposure Risk 17

Risk Evaluation and Prioritisation for Treatment [Nick?] 18

PART B 19

Risk Treatment and Countermeasures 19

Recommendations 21

References 22

Appendices 24

Article #1 – User Behaviour 24

Article #2 – Software 24

Article #3 – Physical Threats 24

PART A
Introduction
At Volt Typhoon, a medium-sized restaurant in the Accommodation & Hospitality Industry, technology is central to its operations. To ensure its continued success, the management has tasked us, the team at Cyber Securitus, with assessing the cyber security risks associated with one of its most important assets: a mobile device used across the organisation. This report is a critical step in protecting the organisation’s sensitive data and ensuring daily operations run smooth.

The mobile device is a Lenovo Yoga 7i 2-in-1 Gen 9 (14"), which is essential to Volt Typhoon’s workflow and overall business management. It is used by staff and management for tasks such as booking tables, managing inventory, accessing proprietary recipes, and facilitating communication. It contains sensitive business data, including customer records, financial details, and operational documents, as well as some personal data. Since this device is also permitted for personal use on-site, the risks are even greater—any compromise could lead to the exposure of confidential information, potentially damaging the restaurant’s reputation, and/or disrupting operations in the process. Our responsibility is to help Volt Typhoon mitigate these risks.

Further in this report we will touch on some of the vulnerabilities identified on the device and the go into detail with flaws in configuration and usage. For instance, there are outdated security patches, disabled firewall protection on public networks, and inconsistent account management practices. Combined with the collective use-case of the device, these issues significantly increase the chances of a cyber security incident. Addressing these risks will be essential for Volt Typhoon to maintain its competitive edge and to maintain the trust of its customers and the integrity of its practices going forward.

In this report, we will also analyse additional risks, identify potential threats, and provide practical recommendations to reduce them. While we are focusing on this specific mobile device, the strategies we propose will still be tangible and tailored to Volt Typhoon’s needs. We have made a few assumptions about how the device is used, based on information provided and deduced from our troubleshooting and light auditing, and these assumptions will be the basis of our analysis.

By the end of this report, we aim to equip Volt Typhoon with the tools and understanding needed to strengthen its cyber security and protect its critical assets for the near future, while reinforcing the need for healthy cyber security practices moving forward. Together, we will ensure the organisation continues to thrive in a digital world increasingly at risk of vulnerability.

Discussion
Context Establishment
The mobile device under review is a Lenovo Yoga 7i 2-in-1 Gen 9 (14"), currently used by the Business Manager of Volt Typhoon, a medium-sized restaurant. This laptop plays a key role in the restaurant’s daily operations and overall management while also being used across the organisation. It is used for booking tables, communicating with suppliers, managing staff schedules, keeping track of inventory, and updating recipe documentation.

It’s also worth noting that the device is used for both business and personal purposes. This means it stores a mix of sensitive business information and personal data. The Business Manager confirmed that all staff and the Business Manager all work out of the one profile, and the Business Manager uses this work profile as his personal profile. The mobile device connects regularly to public and private networks, both inside and outside the workplace, thus configuration and security status even more important when considering the risks.

This context forms the base of our risk assessment. As we go forward in the report, we’ll break down how the device is used, what’s stored on it, and how its current setup might leave Volt Typhoon exposed to a cyber security incident.

Asset Details & Configuration
Hardware Specifications

The Lenovo Yoga 7i 2-in-1 Gen 9 (14") features an Intel® Core™ Ultra 5 125U Processor with E-cores up to 3.60 GHz and P-cores up to 4.30 GHz. The device contains 16GB LPDDR5X-7467MT/s (soldered) memory and 512GB SSD M.2 2242 PCIe Gen4 TLC storage.

The display is a 14" WUXGA (1920 x 1200) IPS touchscreen with 300 nits brightness and 60Hz refresh rate. Communication components include Wi-Fi 6E 2x2 AX and Bluetooth 5.1. Additional hardware features include a 1080P FHD IR Hybrid camera with dual microphones, a 4-cell 71Wh Li-Polymer battery, and a Lenovo Digital Pen (Lenovo, 2023).

Software & Security Configuration

This mobile device runs Windows 11 Pro 22H2 (OS Build 22621.1105)

The Business Manager noted the following software and security configurations he believes may be of interest for our risk evaluation.

1 security update overdue – January 2025 security patch KB5034232 not installed yet.
Windows Security > ‘Firewall & network protection’ > ‘Public network’: OFF.
No User Account 2FA set up.
The Manager also uses his personal email with his administrator user profile which also has User Account Control Settings set to Never Notify.
He also noted that he often forgets to organise personal and business-related media assets into their dedicated OneDrive locations, thus assets may be stored in the wrong drive.
This information may be critical for our assessment of vulnerabilities in future sections.

Pre-installed software includes:

Microsoft Office 365 Business Premium (version 2412.20076.0)
Windows OS.
Microsoft Edge (version 121.0.2277.128)
Lenovo Commercial Vantage (version 3.13.29.0)
Organisation-installed applications include:

Toast POS (version 3.8.4) for point-of-sale operations.
SevenRooms (version 4.2.1) for reservation management
Xero Accounting (version 2.85.0) for financial management
Marketman (version 3.4.2) for inventory management
Microsoft Teams (version 24.02.11721) for communication
Bitdefender Total Security (version 27.0.1.154) for security
Data Profile

Personal data includes:

105 personal contacts
388 personal media (~4.8GB)
1,600 music files (~8GB)
850 personal documents (~6GB)
Business data includes:

Menu database: 256 items (~500MB)
Recipe files: 412 documents (~7.5GB)
Inventory records: 18,432 entries (~3GB)
Financial data: 724 files (~8GB)
Customer records: 16,800 profiles (~6GB)
Marketing assets: 834 images, 22 videos (~7GB)
CIA Analysis
Below is our analysis of possible threats that could act on the potential vulnerabilities within Volt Typhoon, as identified by our team:

Confidentiality:

Company secrets or critical employee information are the most at risk. For example, the manager’s personal email being used on a device configured for work-related matters is an easily exploitable vulnerability, such that any unauthorised users would be able to view not just confidential information like secret recipes and ingredients and even company data and analytics, but also the Manager’s private information and emails, which could be used to access other information maliciously.

User login details of employees located within screenshots inside the Manager’s OneDrive would also be very susceptible to leakage for similar reasons, since the OneDrive is also accessible from the same device, employees’ sensitive data such as bank numbers and personal details can be collected without much difficulty if the OneDrive is not protected.

Integrity:

If assets are accessed by an unauthorised person, or accidentally by a random employee using the device, it becomes easy to edit or delete information stored inside the relevant files and documents. Company information such as financial data, marketing assets and inventory being altered in any way can cause significant issues with external parties collaborating with the company, such as complications with suppliers and vendors, and losing the trust of stakeholders that have invested in the company.

Employee data can also be accessed, either by external parties or even employees themselves, for example, disgruntled workers who wish to destroy company property in an act of “payback.” Changes to recipes, such as editing ingredient quantities or steps in the recipe, can affect the quality of food being served to customers, and subsequently lead to damage to reputation as loyal customers may stop eating at the restaurant.

Availability:

Adding on to affecting the integrity of the company’s assets, there is also threat to the availability of said assets. For example, if the restaurant is to employ menus and services that need to be viewed from a website, if the menu database or website were to go down, customers may not be able to view the menu or make orders online.

Access to the mobile device itself can be compromised, if any of the devices are not well maintained or updated frequently – become unusable for employees or staff during work hours in the event of a breakdown or software update.

Applications & Use-case
The applications that would be used by a restaurant manager on a Yoga 7i Gen 9 given the usage restrictions would primarily include personal applications, in addition to operational and administrative tools.

Understanding that the most popular personal app categories include tools, communication, social, media, games, shopping and finance (Ceci, 2023), the most used personal applications for this situation likely include web browsers, messaging platforms, social networking services, digital banking, ecommerce, and system enhancement tools. The data associated with these applications is sensitive and has a relatively high-risk if compromised.

Specifically, web browsers contain browser history, URL cache, stored usernames and passwords, bookmarks, download history, and cookies (Medium, 2019). As for messaging platforms and social networking services such as Facebook and Instagram, the user’s contacts, conversations, diagnostic data, coarse location, contact information, and user engagement metrics are typically stored (Smith, 2021). Digital banking includes information like the user’s transaction history, account details, personal identification, and inherence-based and knowledge-based authentication data. Ecommerce includes delivery addresses, payment data, user engagement metrics, and purchase history. Lastly, system enhancement tools contain data like device health and storage, network traffic and configuration, and device usage data.

Other genres of personal applications that would likely be less frequently used by a restaurant manager include education, games, and navigation applications.

As part of their operational and administrative goals, restaurant managers would frequently use a range of tools at least once a week to ensure an optimised workflow. These include a point of sale (POS) system, inventory management, performance analytics, employee scheduling, reservation management, online ordering platforms, customer relationship management (CRM) financial management, and business communication tools.

The first three tools- POS system, inventory management and performance analytics- are typically combined into one application. For restaurants, this includes applications such as Toast and Square, which store personal details, financial data, preference data, device information, cookies, and aggregated data (TOAST, 2023). As for employee scheduling, Deputy and Sling are some examples, which store user identity attributes, availability constraints, attendance times and locations, performance data, user banking details, and financial compensation (Deputy Trust Team, 2024). Reservation management, CRM, and online ordering platforms can be integrated into one application, such as the case with Seven rooms and open table, which collect online activity data, user location, transactional data, and account data (SevenRooms INC. 2023). As for financial management, applications like Xero store payment data, account data, authentication data, marketing data, device information, and user generated input (Xero, 2025). Lastly, business communication applications such as Slack, Microsoft 365, Asana, and Zoom all collect metadata, communication content, account data, authentication data, and behavioural data.

As for less frequently used applications that would still be applied in a professional setting, these would include storage applications for operational documents and standard operating procedures (SOPs), marketing applications for temporary promotions, and hiring applications such as indeed, LinkedIn, and Seek.

Risk Identification and Analysis
Article #1 – User Behaviour
Title: Apple issues warning to all 1.8b iPhone users: Delete this app NOW or your bank details will be stolen

Author: Chris Melore

Reference:

Melore, C. (25 April 2025). Apple issues warning to all 1.8b iPhone users: Delete this app NOW or
your bank details will be stolen. Daily Mail Australia.
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-14644235/Apple-issues-warning-1-8b-iPhone- users-Delete-app-bank-details-stolen.html on 25 April 2025.

Brief Summary: The article states that Apple is warning its users to stop using the Google Chrome as their web browser as Google announced not removing Chrome’s third-party cookies can record a user’s digital footprint, including details such as web history, search history, and services they use, which are often collected and sold by Google for marketing and advertising purposes. Third party companies who purchase the data may become compromised by malicious actors who can use this data to uncover a user’s private information. The article recommends to readers to consider other options such as Firefox and Safari.

Information Asset: The information assets at risk are digital information found in a user’s personal information, in which the article includes private search history and banking details, to name a few. Other assets, such as those that are accessible through a user’s personal information, such as their personal email, are also at risk of being hacked into.

Threat: The access of a user’s private details and, in turn, personal accounts by malicious parties who hack into third party companies that purchase Google’s advertising data, potentially compromising the user’s data’s confidentiality, integrity and possibly availability, such as in the form of ransomware.

Vulnerability: The vulnerability in this scenario would be the act by Google to not disable third-party cookies on Chrome, thus allowing Google Chrome users to leave themselves open to having their digital data being collected and used by third parties, and in turn if those third parties have any vulnerabilities of their own, the data would be at the mercy of malicious actors targeting those companies.

Security incident / Attack: As stated, if a malicious actor were to gain access to a Chrome user’s data via third-party cookies, they may be able to use details in this data, such as private credentials and login details, to gain further access to the user’s more critical assets, such as logging into their other personal accounts and digging up more critical information such as bank details, home address, or even use them as a stepping stone to access company details at the user’s workplace.

Article #2 – Software
Title: Microsoft Fixes 72 Flaws, Including Patch for Actively Exploited CLFS Vulnerability

Author: Ravie Lakshmanan

Reference:

Lakshmanan, R. (December 11, 2024). Microsoft Fixes 72 Flaws, Including Patch for Actively
Exploited CLFS Vulnerability. The Hacker News.
https://thehackernews.com/2024/12/microsoft-fixes-72-flaws-including.html

https://connectqutedu-my.sharepoint.com/personal/n11274697_qut_edu_au/Documents/IFB240 - Group/Lakshmanan, R. (December 11, 2024). Microsoft Fixes 72 Flaws, Including Patch for Actively Exploited CLFS Vulnerability. The Hacker News. https:/thehackernews.com/2024/12/microsoft-fixes-72-flaws-including.htmlBrief Summary: This patch has been one of many that are targeted at flaws in Windows Common Log File System (CLFS), that allow for privilege escalation to gain system privileges. However, it is unknown how with will affect hackers using this Vulnerability it is part of the ransomware kill chain where less subtilty is used and a more direct approach is required for ransomware. With a CVE score of 7.8 This security mitigation now allows the CLFS to detect if the log files have been modified by anything other than CLFS. “This has been done by adding a Hash-based Message Authentication Codes (HMAC) to the end of the log file.”

Information Asset: The information assets involved are all data stored or processed on the compromised Windows system. This includes sensitive local files, application data, credentials, and system logs. The data is in use during the attack, and assuming successful privilege escalation, attackers could gain full administrative access, exposing the entire contents of the machine.

Threat: This threat associated with CVE-2024-49138 would allow deliberate external attackers to gain system level privileges through the exploit of a buffer overflow in the CLFS, a core part of the window’s operating system. This would be an attack on the individual / company by allowing the attacker to take full control of the system.

Vulnerability: The Vulnerability within the Users local machine of the Windows OS is a vulnerability within the property of the user. This is not an installed application or remoted backdoor of the machine, should an attacker gain access onto the machine they are able to Privilege escalate to gain access at a system/admin level to the whole of the device.

Security Attack: This is an active, external attack that has been observed in the wild and was used by threat actors as part of broader ransomware operations. Once a machine has been compromised, attackers can use this CLFS vulnerability to escalate privileges and gain SYSTEM-level access. While the attack starts at the software level, it can impact the entire system. The result is a compromise of confidentiality, as attackers can access sensitive data; integrity, if they modify system files or logs; and potentially availability, especially if ransomware is deployed. The vulnerability has been patched by Microsoft, but any unpatched systems remain at significant risk.

Article #3 – Physical Threats
Title:  Russian Spies Jumped from One Network to Another Via Wi-fi in an Unprecedented Hack

Author: Andy Greenberg

Reference:

Greenberg, A. (November 22, 2024). Russian Spies Jumped from One Network to Another
Via Wi-Fi in an Unprecedented Hack. Wired.
https://www.wired.com/story/russia-gru-apt28-wifi-daisy-chain-breach/

Brief Summary: Nearest Neighbour Attack, an attack that was discover in the wild being used by Russian hacker group “Fancy Bear” by compromising a laptop from an organisation down the road and using the Laptop as a Radio antenna. The Hackers had penetrated the device that was connected to a dock plugged into the local network via Ethernet, then used it wi-fi to act as a radio-based relay to allow access into the target network. When conducting investigating the original network owner it was found that they had broken into that network using the same technique. Daisy chaining attacks until they were able to compromise the Wi-Fi network of their desired target. The attackers used the physical location of an infected laptop and its wireless rage. The physical proximity of the infected laptop was critical to the attack conducted by fancy bear.

Information Asset: The information assets at risk include emails, credentials, and internal documents. These exist both in databases (data at rest) and while being transmitted across the network (data in transit). Since the attackers gained internal network access, all such data could potentially be exposed.

Threat: An external bad actor that is looking to compromise a network by to be able to hijack wireless access point by using an infected computers radio antenna. It is targeted and intentional attack as they used this attack several times, daisy chained together, with the goal of infiltrating their desired target network.

Vulnerability: This vulnerability is in the combination of people and property, the property as the device was connected via ethernet to the network, however the Wi-fi was enabled, allowing the hackers to use the device as a physical link to facilitate their attack. The vulnerability of people was exploiting the human oversite and lack of awareness.

Security Attack: This was an active, external attack discovered in the wild being used by the Russian hacker group “Fancy Bear.” The attack involved compromising a laptop from an organisation located near the intended target. The laptop was connected to the network via Ethernet, but its Wi-Fi remained enabled. The attackers used the laptop’s wireless connection as a radio antenna, allowing them to bridge into the neighbouring organisation’s Wi-Fi network without being physically present. During investigation, it was found that the same method had been used across multiple networks — daisy-chaining access from one organisation to the next until the target organisation was compromised. The success of the attack relied on the physical location and wireless range of the infected laptop. The attack impacts confidentiality, as attackers gain access to sensitive internal data, and potentially integrity, if data or systems are altered. Availability may also be affected depending on the attacker’s actions once inside the network.

Privacy Impact Analysis
Policy Analysis
Given that this mobile device is primarily used as a personal device, the social media applications mentioned in the context being Facebook and Instagram were chosen to be analysed. Both these applications are within the Meta group and follow the same privacy policy. In this privacy policy, there are various types of data that are collected from users that is either stored at Meta data centres or shared with third parties. Each data type will be analysed regarding how the data is collected, encrypted, and secured. Additionally, the relevancy of the data and how Meta utilises that data will also be explored, with consideration into how these practices align with Australian privacy legislation.

User Identity
In the registration process to a Meta product, the user’s full name, date of birth, gender, mobile number, email address is required. These types of personally identifiable information (PII) are relevant to the Meta account creation process, as the name, date of birth and gender establish a distinguishable digital identity that can allow users to identify others. As for the email address and mobile number, this information allows Meta to ensure account are unique and non-duplicative, and in the event a user needs to authenticate or recover their account, Meta can verify the user’s identity using multifactor authentication. PII can be anonymised by a user if they choose to permanently delete their accounts, however, this data cannot legally be permanently deleted in Australia, as to prevent fraud and abusive behaviour (Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), s 11.1, s 11.2)

Another type of PII is payment data. Meta applications have various integrated features which prompt users to give Meta access to their payment methods, including ‘Facebook Marketplace’, ‘Instagram Shop’, ‘Meta Pay’, and WhatsApp and Messenger transfers (Blackburn, 2025). The data associated with these features includes the user’s payment method, credit or debit card information, the user’s billing, delivery and contact details. Additionally, this includes details of the transaction, including the purchased item and its quantity, and for financial transfers or donations, the details of both participants are also stored. This is collected every time a user uses Meta’s integrated payment features, including in partner applications such as games, and is stored at Meta data centres. In Australia, this data is necessary for Meta to collect, as Australian legislation requires that financial records must be stored for at least 7 years (Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), s 286).

In regard to encryption, Meta uses transport layer security (TLS) and transparent TLS to encrypt data in transmission, and SSLWall and eBFP to ensure the security of transmission (Goyal, Asogamoorthy & Yang, 2012). The method of encryption for data in storage is not explicitly stated, but Meta assures that the data is encrypted to a suitable standard. However, privacy for user PII is not entirely secure with just the user and Meta, as third parties and partner companies have access to the above PII. Additionally, any other PII other people input about a user into their contacts and then upload to Meta, can be accessed by third parties and partners, even without consent.

Direct and Indirect Data
When a user interacts with Meta applications, the specific actions they take stored and processed by meta. For data relating to engaging within the media-side of the application, such as when a user makes a post, comments, likes, shares, views, interacts with a hashtag, or scrolls, that data is captured through the app interface and stored on Meta servers. For posts, this means that the digital content uploaded by the user, including audio, videos and photos, does get stored by Meta. As for comments, the content within those messages is also stored. It is unclear the encryption method is for this information, but it is likely TLS in transmission and encrypted in storage, as in Australia, organisations must take reasonable steps to prevent information from being misused, accessed, or interfered with (Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), s 11.1).

As for data relating to users engaging with the social side of Meta applications, sent and received messages and messaged content (images, videos, audio), as well as metadata relating to all messages, interaction frequency with users, and relationship between users (blocked, reported, muted, restricted) is also stored. The encryption method for this data is end-to-end encryption (E2EE) in private messaging apps such as WhatsApp, but for social media apps like Messenger, encryption-in-transit is used so the messages can be analysed by Meta if content is reported.

In addition to direct interactions with the application, when the user grants Meta permission to camera roll, all videos and photos in that user’s personal camera roll including all metadata pertaining to those contents is stored. Additionally, when users give excess data to Meta, through customer service and support services, or when answering surveys, that data is also stored and processed by Meta. For customer support, this can include messages, as well as confidential materials such as government-issued IDs, licenses, and subscriptions (Meta Help Centre, 2024). Through surveys, other sensitive personal information (SPI) is collected from the user, including the user’s racial or ethnic identity, sexual orientation, gender, sex assigned at birth, health-related data, trade union membership, and the user’s religious, political, and philosophical beliefs.

Meta also uses algorithms to analyse a user’s pattern of behaviour when the user interacts with a Meta product or service, and this is stored as inferred data. Some examples of inferred data include user connection depth, demographic profiling, and predictive modelling. It is unclear how these data types would be encrypted, but users in Australia have a right to access this information and change it if they want to.

Device Data
The last genre of data that is collected about a user includes device characteristics, performance data, network information, browser data, and tracking data, and they are collected by system APIs. For device characteristics such as the device model and software, this information is accessible and does not require consent, however for other data such as location, microphone, camera and gallery, the user must grant access. Device characteristics and performance are important to Meta, as the application needs to be adjusted for different hardware to improve app performance and optimise the memory and battery usage. From a security perspective, device characteristics can also be important to detect suspicious online activity including fraud. For network information, the user’s language, name of ISP, time zone, mobile number, IP address, connection, download speed, information about other connected devices, and Wi-Fi hotspots are all data that Meta has access to. Although each of these types of data can be beneficial to Meta for detecting suspicious activity, many of these are not necessary. Mobile number should be provided in the registration process, and the information regarding other devices could be in potential violation of Australian privacy principles (Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), cl. 5, Sch. 1; Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), cl. 3, Sch. 1) if the collection is not necessary.

Lastly, Meta collects and exchanges a wide range of tracking data to third parties including cookies, device and browser data, online and offline purchases, and user engagement with advertisements (including those outside of Meta applications, such as Meta pixel). This would likely be encrypted with TLS, however the policy regarding third parties is vague. Interestingly, Meta has found to have recently violated multiple legislation regarding this, including cl. 1.2, 5, 6, 10, and 11 of the Privacy Act 1988 (Office of the Australian Information Commissioner, 2023), costing the company $50 million AUD.

Privacy Risk Identification
Based on our analysis of Meta's privacy policy (Meta Platforms, Inc., 2024) and existing history of risks surrounding Facebook Messenger, several significant privacy risks were identified in relation to Volt Typhoon restaurant. These risks directly stem from the extensive data collection practices outlined in Meta's privacy policy most of which correlates to specific vulnerabilities within Volt Typhoon’s operational context.

While this is not an in-depth look at all identified vulnerabilities, we have provided three key high-risk vulnerabilities in particular. You will find a more comprehensive look into these in later sections of the report which expand on this.

Business Relationship Exposure Risk
Meta's privacy policy reveals an extensive collection of contact information and communication metadata during usage of Facebook Messenger. This presents a substantial risk to Volt Typhoon's supplier relationships and business negotiations, especially considering its dynamic usage within the company. When the Business Manager communicates with suppliers via Messenger, Meta collects not only the content of these messages but also establishes connection patterns, interaction frequency, and relationship depth as outlined in the Policy Analysis.

This data collection may create vulnerability in competitive intelligence gathering, as Meta can sell this data with third parties or use it for targeted advertising, potentially exposing the restaurant's supplier networks, pricing arrangements, and negotiation strategies. This risk is then compounded by the fact that the Business Manager's use of Windows administrator privileges with User Account Control set to "Never Notify" as well as the mixing of personal and business communications which was noted in our Context Establishment section. This configuration would allow Meta to build a more comprehensive profile that invades personal and professional boundaries, creating more exposure for business relationships and jeopardising or biasing the wellbeing of Volt Typhoon in using their private data against them without established consent.

Customer Data Privacy Compliance Risk
Meta's collection of message content, interaction patterns, and customer contact information may present a significant compliance risk for Volt Typhoon. The privacy policy explicitly states that Meta collects "messages sent and received" and "content that has been interacted with", therefore when restaurant staff communicate with customers about reservations, dietary requirements, or special occasions through Messenger, this information would be processed, stored, and potentially shared in accordance with Meta's privacy policy.

This would create a regulatory vulnerability as customers have not provided consent for their preferences and personal information to be shared with Meta or its third-party partners. With 16,800 customer profiles managed by the restaurant, as noted in the Data Profile section, this represents a substantial compliance risk under Australian Privacy Legislation (Privacy Act 1988 (Cth)). The lack of data segregation between personal and business communications further exacerbates this risk, potentially leading to regulatory penalties and reputational damage if customer data is subjected to malpractice.

Intellectual Property Exposure Risk
Meta's privacy policy details an extensive collection of content, including "user activity content," "uploaded content," and the scanning of message content. This creates a significant intellectual property risk for Volt Typhoon's proprietary information. When staff share recipes, menu innovations, or promotional strategies through Messenger, this content is collected, analysed, and potentially retained indefinitely according to Meta's data retention policies.

With 412 recipe documents (7.5GB) identified in the Data Profile section, this represents a substantial portion of Volt Typhoon's intellectual assets potentially exposed through Messenger communications. The Business Manager's noted habit of failing to "organise personal and business-related media assets into their dedicated OneDrive locations" compounds this risk, as proprietary content may be inadvertently shared through insecure endpoints within Meta’s API – for example, anyone with relevant knowledge and basic network access could easily Intercept Webhooks, Send API, or Meta’s primary Graph API endpoint via standard webtools or even automate scraping with a content script or injected Trojan.

Meta's privacy policy also provides limited protection for such intellectual property once shared through their platform, creating vulnerability to unauthorized access or competitive analysis of the restaurant's core proprietary assets – and despite the Business Manager’s intended business-oriented use-case, they present only the basic end-user-level of experience in such inquiries, making them both a vulnerable target, and a POI for Meta data collection and overall telemetry.

Risk Evaluation and Prioritisation for Treatment
[Nick?]

Now you need to evaluate these risks, considering the organisation's risk appetite and risk criteria, to determine if they require treatment, and if so, with what priority.

In this phase, relate the risks discussed in the previous phases to the client organisation. As part of your evaluation, for each of the risks you have identified occurring within the client organisation perform risk evaluation: that is, consider the consequence and likelihood for these incidents to occur in your specific context, and describe the impact that this risk event could have on the client organisation.

How to write about this in your Risk report: Required details and useful tips

Risk Evaluation (1-2 Pages)

For each of the identified risks (those associated with the three selected articles and the privacy policy you analysed), perform an analysis that considers consequence and likelihood.
Which assets are most at risk – and for what sort of harm?
If the asset is harmed, what would the impact be, on the device user and on the organisation? Are there any other stakeholders to consider?
Which sort of analysis can you perform – quantitative or qualitative? Justify your choice.
For the type of analysis you perform, include the scale that you are measuring against for consequence and likelihood, and how these will be combined to determine risk.
Perform the risk analysis.
Based on the above analysis, and the established context, determine which of the identified risks require treatment, and with what priority (Justify your choices).
Useful Tips

You only need to discuss risks that you have identified in the earlier phases. This part of the report should not contain new risks that you create. As a result, it should contain an evaluation of:
the risks based on your analysis of the three articles, as well as
1-2 risks you identified from the consideration of the privacy policy.
Make sure you justify your choices throughout this section. For example, if you perform quantitative analysis, discuss why you are performing this type of analysis.
Note: make sure you perform the analysis and do not just say which type you should use.
If you are unsure how to combine likelihood and consequence into an overall risk level, refer to Lecture 3 Part A. If you are using a risk matrix to calculate a risk level, this matrix should be included and cited appropriately.
While you might consider all the risks as requiring treatment, it is not practical to assign them all the same priority, or to say they all need treatment urgently. Imagine you are giving this report to the client organisation. Their team will subsequently allocate resources to try to treat these risks, so they need to know which risk to address first, and then second, etc.

[The risk treatment itself will be addressed in Part B of your report. You do not need to discuss risk treatment options in Part A.]

PART B
Risk Treatment and Countermeasures
Identify and discuss control measures to mitigate each of the security issues you identified in your Report Part A

In this phase, your team need to identify and discuss control measures to mitigate each of the security issues you identified in Phase 3 (Risk assessment) and Phase 4 (Privacy analysis) and evaluated and prioritised for treatment in Phase 5. The selected control measures should be suitable for the scenario described in the original article.

This must be substantiated by reference to appropriate literature. Do not just make this up. Search the publicly available literature for sources that describe certain control measures and support the effectiveness of control measures in addressing the identified risks. If a control addresses multiple risks, identify these risks.

Record the reference details for the control measure and use in-text citation to connect the content in your report to the reference.

Note: the control measure reference material need not be recently published, and they do not need to be from academic journals. However, they should be from credible sources. We suggest you find articles from reputable organisations (some Australian security organisations we have mentioned in the learning materials include ACSC, ASD, ...), IT security news and reputable security blogs, or industry whitepapers for this section of your report.

Be sure that you have clearly identified at least one control measure to mitigate each of the risks you included in Phase 5, associated with:

the mobile device software (application or operating system)
user behaviour
physical threats to mobile devices, and
user privacy revealed in your app privacy policy review and analysis.
As you consider the options available for the risks you are attempting to address the four options for treating risk:

Risk avoidance
Risk modification
Risk sharing
Risk retention
categorised controls based on:

the approach taken: does it involve technology, policy and process, or people - requiring user education, training, and awareness, and
the role they play preventive, detective, or corrective.
You should be able to determine the applicable categories for the controls that you identify to address the prioritised risks.

How to write about this in your Risk Report:

required details and useful tips.

Use the following Control Measure template for each of the risk treatment summaries you include in this section of your report.

Control Measure Template (1 page per identified risk)

Overview of security issue discussed, and risk identified in Part A Give a really brief (one paragraph) summary of the security issue you discussed previously here. Be sure to include the security goals (CIA) compromised (look for the marker’s feedback on Part A and correct this if you need to).

NOTE: If you did not complete Part A of your report previously, or your team chose an old or irrelevant article in Part A, you can choose a new article and add or replace the earlier sections in this Part B report - but do include a note for the marker to let them know you’ve done this.

Treating the risk

Suggested control measure and explanation
Choose a control measure for the risk you described in your previous submission. There may be a few different options, so pick the one you think is most effective - unless you have already used that type of control for a previous risk treatment. Try to keep your explanation reasonably non-technical.

Your explanation should include:
What the control measure is, and how it works.
Whether the control measure is preventive, detective, or corrective.
An estimate of the degree of protection this control provides for the asset, and how this is obtained. For example, does it reduce the likelihood or the consequence of an incident? How much of a reduction?
A statement of any limitations or other impact. (For example, on efficiency, battery power, user experience, whether the measure requires technical competence on the part of the device user, or requires vendor action, or ...?)
Why the control is relevant in the context of your client organisation.
Example of an article summary using this template:



Useful Tips

You only need to discuss treatments for risks that you have identified and prioritised in your Part A report. This part of the report should not contain new risks that you create, or treatments for risks that have not been mentioned in Part A.
Make sure you justify your choices throughout this section. For example, if you categorise a treatment measure as preventive, be clear about what it prevents and how. If you categorise a treatment measure as technology based, justify that categorisation.
Relate the treatment measures to the client organisation. While you might consider all the risks as requiring treatment, the client organisation may not have the resources or capability for all treatment options. Think about the cost (in $$ and time) and the expertise that may be required to implement these treatments. Does that limit the choices?
Recommendations
After discussing treatment options to address the various risks identified in Part A, including the degree of protection provided and the limitations associated with certain control measures, what are the specific actions that you recommend your client organisation take?

Make a list of the controls that you recommend be applied and the priority for these actions, to treat the identified risks associated with the use of the mobile device.

When choosing your recommendations, you should consider the various costs involved, such as time, money, and personnel. If possible, include approximate values for initial and ongoing costs in your report.

The client organisation may want to address all of the identified risks, but it is not practical to expect that everything will be addressed immediately. Therefore, you should include an approximate timeline for implementing your recommendations. The timeline should also be practical for the organisation to implement, considering internal/external resources and the priority you assigned the risks from Part A of the report. For example, it is impractical for a small organisation to deploy software to hundreds of self-managed devices within a week.

Useful Tips

Recommended controls should include people, policy and process and technology. That is, some controls will involve humans (for example: user awareness training), some will be policies to be established and processes to be applied, and some will be technical.
Although this is a report for a client, in academic terms it is an opportunity to demonstrate the breadth of the information security knowledge of your team (how much of the IFB240 content do you/your team understand and can apply?).
Be sure to explain why the controls you recommend are relevant in this context for this client organisation. The appropriate choices are often dependent on aspects of the context. Do not just list controls and expect the client (or marker) to figure out the relevance. Make it explicit.
References
Blackburn, E. (2025, February 24). What is MetaPay? Digital Payments Explained. Cryptsy
https://cryptsy.com/what-is-metapay-digital-payments-explained/

Ceci, L. (2023, August 25). Market reach of the most popular Android app categories worldwide as of
September 2019. Statista.
https://www.statista.com/statistics/200855/favourite-smartphone-app-categories-by-share-of- smartphone-users/

Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
https://anzlaw.thomsonreuters.com/Document/I6e117698f45e11e89bd58586743dd5b8/View/ FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0

Deputy Trust Team. (ca. 2024). Deputy's commitment to data privacy. Deputy Help Centre.
https://help.deputy.com/hc/en-au/articles/4755716272271-Deputy-s-commitment-to-data-privacy

Goyal, N., Asogamoorthy, A., & Yang, M. (2021, July 12). Enforcing encryption at scale. Meta Engineering.
https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/12/security/enforcing-encryption/

Greenberg, A. (November 22, 2024). Russian Spies Jumped from One Network to Another
Via Wi-Fi in an Unprecedented Hack. Wired.
https://www.wired.com/story/russia-gru-apt28-wifi-daisy-chain-breach/

Lakshmanan, R. (December 11, 2024). Microsoft Fixes 72 Flaws, Including Patch for Actively
Exploited CLFS Vulnerability. The Hacker News.
https://thehackernews.com/2024/12/microsoft-fixes-72-flaws-including.html

Lenovo. (2023). Yoga 7i 2-in-1 (14", Gen 9) - Tech Specs. Lenovo.com.
https://www.lenovo.com/au/en/p/laptops/yoga/yoga-2-in-1-series/lenovo-yoga-7i-2-in-1-gen-9-14- inch-intel/len101y0044

Medium. (2019, Aug 31). Web browsers forensics. Medium. https://nasbench.medium.com/web-browsers-forensics-7e99940c579a

Meta Platforms, Inc. (2024, November 14). Privacy policy. Meta.
https://mbasic.facebook.com/privacy/policy/printable/

Meta Platforms, Inc. (2024, December 9). Meta Help Centre: Types of ID that Meta accepts.
https://www.meta.com/en-gb/help/policies/804481810668573/

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner. (2023, June 2). Meta Platforms Inc.
enforceable undertaking. Office of the Australian Information Commissioner.
https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/privacy-assessments-and-decisions/privacy-decisions/ enforceable-undertakings-meta-platforms-inc-enforceable-undertaking

Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). (2025, February 1). Federal Register of Legislation.
https://www.legislation.gov.au/C2004A03712/2025-02-01

Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). s 3(1-7)
https://anzlaw.thomsonreuters.com/Document/I3603d9010f6811ecae8d91026967941e/View/ FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0

Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). s 5(1-2).
https://anzlaw.thomsonreuters.com/Document/I3603d9140f6811ecae8d91026967941e/View/ FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0

Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). s 11(1 3).
https://anzlaw.thomsonreuters.com/Document/I3603d9430f6811ecae8d91026967941e/View/ FullText.html

SevenRooms INC. (2023, October 26). Privacy policy. SevenRooms.
https://sevenrooms.com/privacy-policy/

Smith, C. (2021, Jan 11). App privacy labels: Facebook Messenger vs. iMessage, Signal, WhatsApp. BGR.
https://bgr.com/tech/app-privacy-labels-facebook-messenger-vs-imessge-signal-whatsapp/

TOAST. (2023, August). Privacy policy.
https://au.toa.st/pages/privacy-policy

Xero. (2025, February 11). Privacy notice.
https://www.xero.com/legal/privacy/