IFB240 Cyber Security
Semester 2 2024

Week 7 Tutorial on Privacy and Security

Essential definitions: Review the deﬁnitions given in the lecture slides for the following terms
 
PrivacySurveillanceInformation PrivacyCookies (in the context of web browsing)Personal informationWeb bugs (in the context of web browsing)Sensitive information (as a subset of personal information)Identity theft
QUESTION 1 
The Australian Privacy Act 1988 is available from the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (see https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy-law/privacy-act/ ). Use the information from the Australian Information Commissioner's page, or access the Privacy Act 1988, to answer the following questions:
a) What sort of privacy is this Act concerned with? [See https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/your-privacy-rights/what-is-privacy/ for a short summary]
b) Section 6 of this Act (in Part II – Interpretation, Division 1 – General definitions), defines the terminology used in the legislation. What do the following terms or phrases mean? 
i. personal information
ii. record
iii. sensitive information
c) What is not regarded as a record under this Act?

QUESTION 2 
There have been several amendments to the Privacy Act; in 2000, 2012, 2017 and in 2024. For the current privacy legislation, answer the following questions about specific Australian Privacy Principles (APPs), making use of the appropriate section of the APP quick reference: https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/australian-privacy-principles/australian-privacy-principles-quick-reference/ :
a) Under APP1, entities must have a clearly expressed policy about the management of information. 
i. What must the privacy policy contain (what must be included)? 
ii. Use your web browser to go to the home pages of some well-known organizations: QUT, your bank, your telecommunications service provider, Google, well known retailers. Look at their privacy policies. Do they comply with APP1 of the Privacy Act?
b) APP5 is concerned with notification of the collection of information. What must entities collecting personal information do to comply with this principle?
c) APP 6 imposes limits on the use or disclosure of personal information: an APP entity holding personal information that was obtained for a particular purpose should not use the information for any other purpose, although there are exceptions. List the exceptions.
d) APP11 covers the security of personal information. 
i. If an entity holds personal information, what does this principle require them to do? 
ii. How does this relate to the traditional information security goals (represented by the acronym CIA)? 

QUESTION 3
The Australian Information Commissioner may investigate potential privacy breaches, either in response to complaints raised by individuals or on their own instigation. After the cyber-attack on the private health insurer Medibank in October 2022, the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) investigated and determined that a privacy breach had occurred. Following this, the Australian Information Commissioner filed civil penalty proceedings in the Federal Court. Read the OAIC news statement available here:
https://www.oaic.gov.au/news/newsroom/oaic-takes-civil-penalty-action-against-medibank#:~:text=The%20Commissioner%20alleges%20that%20from,of%20the%20Privacy%20Act%201988.  

Download the ‘Concise Statement’ and read the document to answer the following questions:
a) What sort of personal information did Medibank hold, and was any of this regarded as sensitive under the Privacy Act?
b) Which Privacy Principles are alleged to have been breached?
c) How did this alleged breach occur?
d) How many Medibank customers are alleged to be affected?

QUESTION 4
Many organizations monitor the use of information assets by employees and other entities. At QUT, information assets are monitored, and security audits are also conducted periodically. 
a) Refer to Section 7 of the Information Security Policy in QUT’s Manual of Policies and Procedures (Information Security Policy / Document / MOPP (qut.edu.au)) to answer the following questions:
i. What sort of monitoring does QUT perform?
ii. Why does it monitor? What are the logs of this activity used for?
b) From Section 8 of the Information Security Policy, what are the potential consequences for misuse of QUT information assets (considered to be a security breach)?

QUESTION 5
Many internet applications use cookies for session management. When cookies are used, information is transferred from the web server to the user's machine. This is a small text file that could include login name, subscription identifier, etc. Then, each time you visit the web site, the webserver checks for the cookie and recognizes the user, based on the cookie information. There is a discussion of cookie control for a range of browsers in the August 2020 PC Mag article by Eric Griffith, available at:
https://au.pcmag.com/how-to/29592/how-to-control-and-delete-cookies-on-your-browser. Read the article and answer the following questions about cookies:
a) Why are cookies used?
b) What is a third-party cookie, and why would they be used?
c) Locate cookies on your machine (storage location varies depending on your browser, search online for technique to find Cookies associated with your browser). This is often located with Privacy settings, or with developer tools. Once you have found the web cookies:
i. What type of cookies did you find (persistent or nonpersistent/session cookies)? 
ii. For persistent cookies (these stay on your device even after the browser is closed – for some browsers you may be able to find the expiry dates), what are they associated with? When do they expire (if you can locate this information)?
iii. Did you find any cookies for QUT? Read about the use of cookies at QUT (https://www.qut.edu.au/additional/privacy/online-privacy-statement). What sort of information is stored in these QUT cookies? Is it regarded as personal information, as per the Privacy Act? 
iv. Did you find cookies for any other organizations that you regularly visit? Which?
v. Did you find any cookies for organizations you don’t recognize? 
d) The use of cookies can be beneficial for the user. Explain some of the beneficial uses. 
e) Cookies can also be used in ways that may be regarded as invasive, and potentially a threat to user privacy. Explain how cookies set by third parties can potentially be used to profile the online interests of a user.
f) Go to the site: https://kahoot.com/. Did you get a pop-up message about cookies? Before clicking on [Accept all cookies] explore the options in the [Cookies settings]. 
i. What sort of cookies can you turn on or off? 
ii. What is the purpose of each type?
iii. If you [Accept all cookies], what have you consented to?
g) Explore your options with cookies on other sites you visit.

QUESTION 6
Web bugs (or pixel tags, or web beacons …) are often used to track user visits to web sites. 
a) QUT uses such tracking mechanisms and provides information on the details collected in this manner under the heading ‘Cookies and site usage’ in the Online Privacy Statement available at https://www.qut.edu.au/additional/privacy/online-privacy-statement . What details does QUT obtain in this manner?
b) What sort of technology does QUT employ for the web bug (Look in the ‘Site usage’ section)?
c) Visit the QUT homepage and find out where the content on the displayed page is coming from (For Chrome, from the ellipses choose More Tools -> Developer Tools and look at the Source tab. For other browsers, search for information about how to locate page source content). There is some content from third-party service providers. Can you identify some of these?
d) Visit the homepages of at least five well-known organizations: (your bank, news and weather services, well known retailers such as Myer and David Jones, other sites you commonly visit). 
i. Do any of these organizations have content provided by third party providers? Who is the third party? 
ii. Do any of these sites have third party providers in common?
iii. Did you find any organizations that don’t use third party content providers? HINT: there is an organization that has content on the pages of many other organizations but does not appear to use third-party cookies on its own pages.    


QUESTION 7
Over the last few years, there has been quite a bit of public debate on government surveillance of telephone and Internet communications. 
a) In 2017, Australian Commonwealth legislation on data retention came into force. This required telecommunications companies to keep metadata related to customer use of their services, to be accessed by a range of state and federal government agencies under certain circumstances. Read the 2017 article ‘Data retention laws are now in effect and here’s what you need to know’ by Luke Cooper [available at https://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2017/04/18/data-retention-laws-are-now-in-effect-and-heres-what-you-need-t_a_22037910/], and answer the following questions:
a. What is metadata? 
b. Explain what metadata means, in the context of telephone and Internet communication.
b) To see how metadata may be used to reveal personal information, read the article by ABC reporter Will Ockenden outlining the outcome of analysis of six months of metadata related to his mobile phone: ‘How your phone tracks your every move’ available at: http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-08-16/metadata-retention-privacy-phone-will-ockenden/6694152. Read the article and answer the following questions:
a. What did the metadata analysis reveal about: 
i. Will’s movements during the six month period.
ii. Will’s relationships to other phone users during the six month period.
c) The Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018 amended a range of legislation to give some law enforcement and national security agencies powers to request or compel telecommunications providers to give them access to data and devices. The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner made a submission to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security on a review of the amendments made by the Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018. Read through the submission document [Available at https://www.oaic.gov.au/engage-with-us/submissions/inquiry-into-the-telecommunications-and-other-legislation-amendment-assistance-and-access-act-2018-submission-to-the-parliamentary-joint-committee-on-intelligence-and-security/ ] to find the OAIC’s main concerns with respect to this legislation and the impact on information privacy. List the major points.  

QUESTION 8
Phones are not the only things that track your physical location – other devices may do this too. Some people use smart devices in connection with fitness apps, and include geolocation data to map workouts and routes for jogging, cycling etc. The historical records may be useful for performance monitoring, but who can and should have access? Read the story about the Polar fitness company and the vulnerability associated with the Explore map reported in July 2018, and available here: https://www.zdnet.com/article/fitness-app-polar-exposed-locations-of-spies-and-military-personnel/
.
a) What sort of information was displayed using the Explore feature?
b) What sort of information could be retrieved from the Polar Flow database by querying the developer API?
c) How could this impact on personal privacy or national security? 
 
QUESTION 9
How vulnerable are you to identity theft? The ACCC Scamwatch site (https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/) has information and statistics on identity theft. Use the site to find out about this:
a) From the ‘Types of Scams’ tab https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/types-of-scams , list common methods used to obtain personal information belonging to others.
b) How can you protect yourself against identity theft? From the ‘Stop. Check. Protect.’ Tab https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/stop-check-protect , choose ‘Help to spot and avoid scams’. What are the common signs of a scam?  
c) Use the Scam statistics button under the Research and Resources tab and choose Identity theft in the drop-down menu to find out how many reports of identity theft were made:
i. In 2024, and the associated financial loss?
ii. In 2025 so far, and what proportion of these involved financial loss?
d) Watch the ‘ID Theft’ informative video available here: Protect Your ID, Protect U - Full Version - YouTube ). What method of gaining personal information is mostly discussed? What item is considered ‘like gold’, and why is it so highly desired?

